---
author: Noah Lasky-Nielson
---

# Candidate Statement

My experiences studying neuroscience have ingrained in me a strong desire to
understand the brain through multimodal, interdisciplinary research. The
opportunity to study neuroscience experimentally, theoretically, and
philosophically brings me unparalleled excitement. I wish to pursue a PhD to
study the transformation of sensory input into behavior; I further intend to
nurture a tight-knit, collaborative research environment through communication
and leadership. The neurobiology graduate program at the University of Chicago
is an excellent fit for me to achieve these goals.

In truth, it took some time for my interest in research to click. As a freshman
at Brandeis University, I intended on studying mathematics and medicine. I
enrolled in the requisite courses; I felt excited, but this excitement quickly
gave way to ennui. I tried remedying this ennui by taking challenging courses
in the sciences and humanities: computational neuroscience, philosophy of
infinity, and anthropology of death to name a few. These courses provided some
relief, but the feeling persisted.

In my sophomore year, I joined the laboratory of Dr. Stephen Van Hooser. The
focus of our work at the time was to better understand the development of the
mammalian visual cortex using optical and optogenetic techniques. In particular,
we studied the development of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1),
focusing on tuning properties, in ferrets. I, along with Dr. Van Hooser and a
graduate student, sought to better understand motion processing in the visual
cortex, a mechanism historically less understood than spatial processing. My
project, evolving into a senior research thesis, investigated whether neurons in
ferret V1 were tuned for speed, a tuning property believed to arise in
higher-order visual areas (HVAs).

I developed an algorithm for fitting a model to the firing rates of neurons
recorded at various depths in V1 of anesthetized ferrets. This algorithm,
integral to the project, provided the parameter used to assess whether a neuron
was tuned for speed: the speed index. I enhanced the algorithm by implementing
an _F_-test to verify that large speed index values, indicating tuning for
speed, were not the result of an edge case. In developing the algorithm, I
constructed code in a manner that prevented fits from ending up in local error
minima and developed visualization techniques to ensure that fits were robust. I
learned the importance of carefully monitoring the progression of data through a
pipeline to check that the process produces quality output. I found that
approximately one quarter of ferret V1 neurons were tuned for speed, one quarter
exhibited no tuning for speed, and one half possessed tuning properties
somewhere in between. In recognition of my work, I was awarded my bachelor's
degree in neuroscience with high honors.

It was in the process of developing, refining, and writing my senior research
thesis that the stars aligned: I wanted to pursue graduate school. In realizing
my passion during the last few months of my undergraduate, I recognized that I
possessed gaps in my scientific record. I therefore decided to gain further
research experience to grow as a person and scientist and strengthen my
research, communication, and leadership skills.

I was fortunate enough to receive a postbaccalaureate research fellowship to
conduct full-time research as part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). I
joined the laboratory of Dr. Bevil Conway in the Laboratory of Sensorimotor
Research (LSR), where we study the pathways and computations involved in the
transformation of visual input into behavior. In my time working alongside Dr.
Conway and members of our group, I have been primarily involved in two projects.

The first project is interested in understanding the brain areas underlying the
long-term association between color and shape, an association that provides the
backbone for visual concepts. I worked alongside two postbaccalaureate
researchers, a graduate student, and two non-human primates (NHPs) in answering
this question with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and neural
decoding. As the project began prior to my arrival, the research goals had
already been put in place for me, and I did my best to achieve these goals. I
learned to work with NHPs, became more familiar with fMRI experiments and
analysis, developed methods that improved decoding performance, and presented
the project to a broad audience during an NIH-wide poster day. Over time, I grew
frustrated with my role, feeling that there was little of scientific value I
could contribute given the progression of the project, so I worked with Dr.
Conway to begin an entirely new project.

This new project seeks to elucidate the functional properties of human visual
areas, a question less sought after compared to the organization of those areas,
with fMRI. I work with a postdoctoral researcher focusing on retinotopic cortex:
the collection of visual areas possessing a representation of visual information
projected onto the retina. In the spirit of robust and reproducible results, I
consulted with members outside my group concerning best practices in
experimental design, data collection, and analysis. In studying retinotopic
cortex, we utilize population receptive field mapping, drifting gratings varying
in color, contrast, and spatial frequency, and a hypothesis-free feature
extraction algorithm. I learned to recruit participants and presented the
outline of the project during an NIH-wide seminar series. Excitingly, we
recently began collecting data in participants and have many more lined up to
start scanning.

As a member of the LSR, I have the privilege of being in a collaborative,
nurturing environment; the opportunity to connect and learn is only a few steps
away. Inspired by this experience, I wish to foster a research environment where
professors and students can connect, collaborate, and learn from one another,
regardless of discipline or research interest. To this end, I am involved in
leadership, volunteering, and teaching efforts. As a representative for my group
in the LSR, I work with researchers of varying expertise to improve member
wellbeing by introducing, refining, and emphasizing available resources and
opportunities. In addition, my experiences teaching neuroscience and programming
motivate me to pursue teaching and mentorship opportunities in graduate school.

The neurobiology graduate program at the University of Chicago provides exciting
opportunities for me to both study my scientific questions of interest and
immerse myself in a tight-knit, collaborative community. The program's excellent
scientific work and community will lay a strong foundation for me to pursue a
professorship at an academic institution in the future. I am particularly
interested in working with Drs. David Freedman, Marlene Cohen, John Maunsell,
and Matthew Kaufman. Their work, independently, present thrilling opportunities
to study the interplay between sensory input and behavior, be it decision
making, categorization, attention, or the generation of movement. My time spent
talking to professors and current graduate students has only reinforced my
interest in working in those groups. In addition, the large number of journal
clubs will allow me to foster relationships beyond my groups of interest. I plan
to capitalize on the overlap between the neurobiology and computational
neuroscience research to strengthen my understanding of the brain and
quantitative skills. It is these factors, in combination with my research
experience and skills, that will enable me to thrive at the University of
Chicago. As my top choice, it would be an honor to be part of this year's
entering class.
